1.5 Resource Management (Big Picture)

“An operating system is a resource manager.”
This is one of the most important one-line definitions of an OS.
  What is a Resource?
      A resource is anything limited that programs need to run.
    Main OS resources:
                  CPU time
                  Main memory (RAM)
                  File-storage space (disk/SSD)
                  I/O devices (keyboard, mouse, printer, network, etc.)


1.5.1 Process Management
A program can do nothing unless its instructions are executed by a CPU. A
program in execution, as mentioned, is a process. A program such as a compiler
is a process, and a word-processing program being run by an individual user
on a PC is a process. Similarly, a social media app on a mobile device is a
process. For now, you can consider a process to be an instance of a program in
execution, but later you will see that the concept is more general. As described
in Chapter 3, it is possible to provide system calls that allow processes to create
subprocesses to execute concurrently

What is fork() (OS View)
ANS:    Definition (exam-perfect):
        fork() is a system call that creates a new process by duplicating the calling process.
              Parent process → calls fork()
              Child process → newly created process
      Both:
        Run concurrently
        Have different PIDs
        Start execution from the same point
Cache Management ( Smalles unit ) as it has low size so maintaing it is an another next level importance 
1.10.5 Cloud Computing

Cloud computing is a type of computing that delivers computing, storage,
and even applications as a service across a network. In some ways, it’s a
logical extension of virtualization, because it uses virtualization as a base for
its functionality. For example, the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (ec2) facility
has thousands of servers, millions of virtual machines, and petabytes of storage
available for use by anyone on the Internet. Users pay per month based on
how much of those resources they use. There are actually many types of cloud
computing, including the following:
      • Public cloud—a cloud available via the Internet to anyone willing to pay for the services
      • Private cloud—a cloud run by a company for that company’s own use
      • Hybrid cloud—a cloud that includes both public and private cloud components
      • Software as a service (SaaS)—one or more applications (such as word processors or spreadsheets) available via the Internet
      • Platform as a service (PaaS)—a software stack ready for application use via the Internet (for example, a database server)
      • Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)—servers or storage available over the Internet (for example, storage available for making backup copies of production data)
