                                                                      Process Control in UNIX (fork, exec, wait)
First: What is a Process?
    A process is a running instance of a program with:

Its own PID (Process ID)
      Own memory (code, stack, heap, data)
      Own registers and program counter
      UNIX manages processes using system calls.

What does “creation in the kernel” mean?
     Creation in the kernel means the operating system kernel is responsible for creating and managing system objects, such as:

    Processes
    Threads
    Memory spaces
    File descriptors


fork() – Create a New Process

🔹 What is fork()?

fork() creates a new process (child) by duplicating the calling process (parent).

🔹 Where does it work?

    Kernel space creates the process
    User program calls fork()

OS allocates:

          New PID
          New memory space (copy-on-write)

A program is an executable file in ELF (Executable and Linkable Format) format.
A process is an instance of a program in execution state. It has unique process identifier (PID).
A process has various user and group IDs – real, effective and saved.
pid_t getpid(void) – Returns: process ID of calling process
pid_t getppid(void) – Returns: parent process ID of calling process
uid_t getuid(void) – Returns: real user ID of calling process
uid_t geteuid(void) – Returns: effective user ID of calling process
gid_t getgid(void) – Returns: real group ID of calling process
gid_t getegid(void) – Returns: effective group ID of calling process
Process control includes creation of new processes, program execution & process termination.

A program is:
  
  A file stored on disk
  Usually in ELF format on Linux
  Contains machine instructions + metadata
  Not running yet
  
  👉 Example: a.out, ls, cat, or any compiled C program.
Process
    A process is:
        
        A program that is loaded into memory
        Currently running or waiting
        Has a unique PID

Process ID (PID)

Every running process gets a unique number from the OS.
    Function:
        pid_t getpid(void);
        
        Returns PID of the calling process.
        Has its own memory, stack, file descriptors, registers, etc.

Parent Process ID (PPID)
    
    Every process has a parent.
    
    Function:
        pid_t getppid(void);
        
        Returns PID of your parent process.
    Example:
      
      Terminal runs your program → terminal is parent
      Your program's PPID = terminal’s PID

USER IDs and GROUP IDs
          Processes run under a user and a group, which determine permissions.
There are 3 types each:

✔ Real ID (UID/GID)
     The actual user who started the process.
✔ Effective ID (EUID/EGID)
    The user/group actually used for permission checking.
    Often different when running sudo or setuid programs.
Why do effective IDs exist?

Example:
passwd program allows updating /etc/shadow, which requires root permissions.

Real UID = your ID
    
    Effective UID = root
    
    Saved IDs
    
    They store your previous effective UID/GID so that a program can temporarily drop and regain privileges.
    
    Examples in system utilities.

Process Control
    
    Process control involves:
    
    ✔ Creating new processes
    
    (using fork())
    
    ✔ Executing programs
    
    (using exec() family: execl, execvp, etc.)
    
    ✔ Terminating processes
    
    (using exit(), return, or signals)
    
    This is the foundation of UNIX process management.


What is Inter-Process Communication (IPC)?
    Inter-Process Communication (IPC) is the mechanism that allows two or more processes to communicate with each other or share data.

In simple words:

     Processes cannot normally talk to each other directly.
     IPC gives them a way to send messages, data, or signals
Definition of Shared Memory
  Shared Memory is an IPC (Inter-Process Communication) mechanism where two or more processes share the same physical memory region.
  `  They can read and write to this memory directly, making it the fastest IPC technique.

Why IPC is needed:

    To share data between programs
    To coordinate work between processes
    To improve performance in multitasking systems

Common IPC mechanisms:

    Pipes
    Message Queues
    Shared Memory
    Semaphores
    Signals
    Sockets

  What is Process Creation?
    Process creation is the act of creating a new process (running program) in an operating system.
      👉 A process = program in execution (not just a file).
      So, process creation means starting a new running program.

Is Process Creation a function?

 Yes, in Unix it is done using system calls (functions) provided by the OS.

Main system calls:
      fork() → creates a new process
      exec() → loads a new program into a process
      These are OS-level functions, not normal user functions.

Where does Process Creation happen?

Process creation happens:
          Inside the Operating System (Kernel)
          Triggered by a user program using system calls

Why do we need Process Creation?
        We need process creation because:

1. Run multiple programs 
    OS must run many programs at the same time

2. Program isolation (safety)
      Each process has separate memory
      One crash does NOT crash others

3. Parallel & multitasking
      Parent and child can run simultaneously


4. Resource management
      OS tracks CPU, memory, files per process

5. System services
      Servers, daemons, background jobs


Summary

kill(pid, SIGKILL) → sends signal to kernel
Kernel delivers signal to child process
Child is terminated immediately
Signal does not appear in output unless a handler is set (not possible for SIGKILL)
kill() is the function you call in your code; the kernel handles the rest
How kill(pid, SIGKILL) Works Internally
0️⃣ Big Picture (One Line)

kill() is a system call that asks the kernel to deliver a signal to a process.
User Space vs Kernel Space

Your program runs in user space
The OS (Linux kernel) runs in kernel space

kill(pid, SIGKILL);
